---
title: IC-7100
description: ICOM IC-7100 all band, all mode transceiver
---

{% include main-template.md %}

# IC-7100

This is a fantastic radio for the modern ham! I recently acquired one to replace several other band specific radios in an attempt to clean up my shacks wire problem.

## AF/IF over USB

I use it for FM, SSB and D-Star mostly but I also experiment with it's AF/IF over USB so I can decode and TX WSPR and other data modes without a RIGblaster and loads of cables.

### [Hamlib](https://github.com/Hamlib/Hamlib)

I have my IC-7100 connected to a virtual machine on a VMware host. This is done via USB pass-through. The virtual machine runs Ubuntu 16.04 x64 LTS for the OS and I have compiled and installed Hamlib so I can control my IC-7100 automatically on a scheduled basis using a crontab entry in Linux. This all works over a single USB cable.

I make use of `rigctl` which is a CLI tool that gets built when you make Hamlib.

This is a sample of my crontab. Basically at 30 mins past 9am on Sunday it will run `rigctl` and control the radio on the port `ttyUSB0` with radio model `370` (IC-7100) which is only available if you build it from source as support for that radio has only recently been added. It then changes the current memory channel to `29` which is what I have GB3ZB programmed in as.

```shell
# Change radio to GB3ZB on Sunday morning for GB2RS news.
30 9 * * 7 rigctl -r /dev/ttyUSB0 -m 370 E 29

# Change radio to GB3BS after GB2RS news has ended.
30 10 * * 7 rigctl -r /dev/ttyUSB0 -m 370 E 31
```

## Logging all the things

I have my IC-7100 record various activities and that was a main selling point the logging feature. Below is a list of a few repositories I update with data extracted from my IC-7100:

* [RTTY Logs](https://bitbucket.org/2E0PGS/ham-radio-logbook-ic-7100-rtty)
* [D-Star RX Logs](https://bitbucket.org/2E0PGS/ham-radio-logbook-ic-7100-d-star-rx)
* [D-Star QSO Logs](https://bitbucket.org/2E0PGS/ham-radio-logbook-ic-7100-d-star-qso)
